
Work started, 5/27/2003:

Here is the start to the new manual. It is in Docbook XML, which is
becoming the new standard for documentation. The advantages include
more precise tagging, figure and table support, and a very strongly
supported toolchain. There is a fairly brief cheatsheet.xml here which
will probably tell you all you need to know, especially if you've
worked with debiandoc before. The Definitive Guide to DocBook by Norm
Walsh is indispensable for figuring out why your tags don't work the
way you think they should:

http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/docbook/chapter/book/docbook.html

So far, I've committed files corresponding to the first 3 sections of
the old manual, which shouldn't be changed too much for the new
installer. I used the 2xml script in this directory on the old
install.en.sgml.

Translators will probably want to take the approach, at least for the
sections that haven't changed too much, of initially using the script
to translate the old install.xx.sgml into install.xx.sgml.xml (an
intermediate document which will have all the sections in it). You
will need to use the script in the boot-floppies cvs documentation
directory.

However there was a lot of formatting and tag correcting that I still
had to do after using the script, besides cutting the doc apart into
manageable pieces, so it might be easiest to just proofread, copy and
paste from install.xx.sgml.xml into a copy of the English docs in xx/
(just copying the text from out between the tags).

Denis is looking into l10n systems for DocBook, particularly poxml
which was used in the KDE docs. 

Eventually we'll have to figure out how to build something from it.

To validate for now, you can use 

./validate.sh install.xx.xml

For the future, big plans: I'd like to incorporate whatever is
practical from the progeny manual. I'd like to add screen shots. And
I'd like to have Quick Start sections for 2 audiences: techies that
just need a reminder, and newbies who are using the graphical
installer with debconf set to high. As much as possible, I'd like to
hide the prosaic details, there if you need 'em and out of your way if
not. All help is welcome!
